README.md, before:

# FdK

See also [OpenStreetMap uMap](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/UMap)

# AssociationMap

## Setup

### Setting up the database

Depending on your MySQL environment, you can do this using the
[phpMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/) GUI interface or via the command line.

#### From command line

1. Install MySQL and make sure it's running. On Ubuntu:
   ```bash
   sudo apt install mysql-server
   systemctl status mysql.service
   ```

2. Set up a MySQL database on your server. Current DB name of the database is
   `associations`. Can be renamed.
   ```shell
   sudo mysql -uroot
   ```

   ```mysql
   DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS associations;
   CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS associations;
   ```

3. Create user and grant permissions to database.
   ```mysql
   CREATE USER 'user'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '<YOUR-PASSWORD>';
   GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON associations.* TO 'user'@'localhost' WITH GRANT OPTION;
   exit
   ```

4. Import the data:
   ```
   mysql -uuser --table -p associations < map/database/db-export/associations.sql
   ```
5. Verify the import. Login to the database:
   ```bash
   mysql -uuser -p --table associations
   ```
   Now in MySQL:
   ```mysql
   SHOW TABLES;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN activities;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN associations;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN contacts;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN districts;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN images;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN links;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN socialmedia;
   ```

#### Using [phpMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/) GUI interface

Click on the newly created database and select `Import` from the top menu. Then
you can upload the `.sql` file to your database.


### Setting up the database scripts

1. Copy connection-template to a new file:
   ```
   cp map/database/api/_database.php map/database/api/database.php
   ```
2. Edit `DB_HOST`, `DB_NAME`, `DB_USER` and `DB_PASS` according to your
   configuration made in the steps (1.), (2.) and (3.) of the previous section.
   I.e. change the:
   ```php
    define('DB_HOST', '');
    define('DB_NAME', '');
    define('DB_USER', '');
    define('DB_PASS', '');
   ```
   to:
   ```php
    define('DB_HOST', 'your.mysql.host.com');
    define('DB_NAME', 'associations');
    define('DB_USER', 'user');
    define('DB_PASS', '<YOUR-PASSWORD>');
   ```

Leave the `database.php` file in the `/database/api/` directory. This way, it
will be copied to the right location when deploying the apps.
**The file will NOT be committed to the Git repository.**

### Angular

For further information on how to install and setup angular as well as on how to
build an app, see here: [Angular Docs](https://angular.io/guide/setup-local)

### Versioning

#### New map app version

1. Commit, stash or reset all changes made to any project.
2. Run
```
cd app-map
npm run app-map:version
```

or if you want to make a commit for the new version automatically, run
`npm run app-form:version:commit`.


#### New form app version

1. Commit, stash or reset all changes made to any project.
2. Run
```
cd app-form
npm run app-form:version
```
or if you want to make a commit for the new version automatically, run
`npm run app-form:version:commit`.

### Deploying

1. Make sure you have set up your `database.php` file described in the section
  above ("Setting up the database scripts"). This only has to be done once when
  deploying the apps for the first time or if the database configuration has
  changed.

2. Run
```
cd app-map
npm run app-map:build:prod
cd app-form
npm run app-form:build:prod
```
3. Check the `map/dist/` directory. It should have following structure:

  ```
    - dist/
      - AssociationMap/
        - api/
          - database.php
          - ...
        - assets/
          - ...
        - edit/
          - assets/
            - ...
          - index.html
          - ...
        - index.html
        - ...
  ```

4. Upload the contents of `map/dist/AssociationMap/` onto the root path of your
   server.

### Changing paths

If you don't want to upload the app(s) to the server root path, but to a
subdirectory on your server, you can achieve that following these steps:

1. In both apps (`app-map`, `app-form`), open and edit the
   `src/environments/environment.prod` file.

2. Change the `serverBasePath` variable to the location on your server you
   uploaded the `api` directory to.

3. Change the `rootPath` variable to the location on your server you uploaded
   the respective app directory to (directory containing the `index.html` and
   the assets directory).

4. Rebuild and redeploy the apps.

### Use the apps

If you uploaded the apps to the root path of the server and did not change the
default paths, the apps' content should appear at the following paths:

1. Open the app at
`http(s)://[YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS]/`.

2. The edit form can be used at
`http(s)://[YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS]/edit`.

3. The edit forms for the dropdown options can be used at
`http(s)://[YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS]/edit/options-form`.



# Data conversion ODS to JSON

By the convention the main color of uMap-test and uMap-prod versions are different.
Also the associations without public address have different color.

## Usage

### Clojure

```bash
cd data
# generate pom.xml (or create it manually)
clojure -Spom

# build
clojure -X:depstar uberjar :jar fdk.jar

# run - two alternatives:

# 1. run unsing clojure
clojure -M -m fdk.geo Vereinsinformationen_öffentlich_Stadtteilkarte.ods out.umap

# 2. run from java
java -jar fdk.jar Vereinsinformationen_öffentlich_Stadtteilkarte.ods out.umap
```

Both alternatives have an optional parameter specifying colors. E.g. for the
test version (using clojure):

```
clojure -M -m fdk.geo Vereinsinformationen_öffentlich_Stadtteilkarte.ods out.umap \
 '{:colors {:main "DarkBlue" :no-addr "DeepSkyBlue"}}'
```
### Typescript

```bash
# install nodejs
sudo npm install -g typescript
npm install --save-dev @types/node
npm install xlsx
```

Compile the typescript source code files as they change:
```bash
tsc *.ts --watch
```

Open a new console and run the data conversion:
```bash
node json.js
```

## License

Copyright © 2020, 2021

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

Commit message:

associations.sql: drop & recreate whole database

README.md, after:

# FdK

See also [OpenStreetMap uMap](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/UMap)

# AssociationMap

## Setup

### Setting up the database

Depending on your MySQL environment, you can do this using the
[phpMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/) GUI interface or via the command line.

#### From command line

1. Install MySQL and make sure it's running. On Ubuntu:
   ```bash
   sudo apt install mysql-server
   systemctl status mysql.service
   ```

2. Set up a MySQL database on your server. Current DB name of the database is
   `associations`. Can be renamed.
   ```shell
   sudo mysql -uroot
   ```

   ```mysql
   DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS associations;
   CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS associations;
   ```

3. Create user and grant permissions to database.
   ```mysql
   CREATE USER 'user'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '<YOUR-PASSWORD>';
   GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON associations.* TO 'user'@'localhost' WITH GRANT OPTION;
   exit
   ```

4. Import the data. Attention! The script drops existing database. Any existing
   data will be lost.
   ```
   mysql -uuser --table -p associations < map/database/db-export/associations.sql
   ```
5. Verify the import. Login to the database:
   ```bash
   mysql -uuser -p --table associations
   ```
   Now in MySQL:
   ```mysql
   SHOW TABLES;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN activities;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN associations;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN contacts;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN districts;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN images;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN links;
   SHOW COLUMNS IN socialmedia;
   ```

#### Using [phpMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/) GUI interface

Click on the newly created database and select `Import` from the top menu. Then
you can upload the `.sql` file to your database.


### Setting up the database scripts

1. Copy connection-template to a new file:
   ```
   cp map/database/api/_database.php map/database/api/database.php
   ```
2. Edit `DB_HOST`, `DB_NAME`, `DB_USER` and `DB_PASS` according to your
   configuration made in the steps (1.), (2.) and (3.) of the previous section.
   I.e. change the:
   ```php
    define('DB_HOST', '');
    define('DB_NAME', '');
    define('DB_USER', '');
    define('DB_PASS', '');
   ```
   to:
   ```php
    define('DB_HOST', 'your.mysql.host.com');
    define('DB_NAME', 'associations');
    define('DB_USER', 'user');
    define('DB_PASS', '<YOUR-PASSWORD>');
   ```

Leave the `database.php` file in the `/database/api/` directory. This way, it
will be copied to the right location when deploying the apps.
**The file will NOT be committed to the Git repository.**

### Angular

For further information on how to install and setup angular as well as on how to
build an app, see here: [Angular Docs](https://angular.io/guide/setup-local)

### Versioning

#### New map app version

1. Commit, stash or reset all changes made to any project.
2. Run
```
cd app-map
npm run app-map:version
```

or if you want to make a commit for the new version automatically, run
`npm run app-form:version:commit`.


#### New form app version

1. Commit, stash or reset all changes made to any project.
2. Run
```
cd app-form
npm run app-form:version
```
or if you want to make a commit for the new version automatically, run
`npm run app-form:version:commit`.

### Deploying

1. Make sure you have set up your `database.php` file described in the section
  above ("Setting up the database scripts"). This only has to be done once when
  deploying the apps for the first time or if the database configuration has
  changed.

2. Run
```
cd app-map
npm run app-map:build:prod
cd app-form
npm run app-form:build:prod
```
3. Check the `map/dist/` directory. It should have following structure:

  ```
    - dist/
      - AssociationMap/
        - api/
          - database.php
          - ...
        - assets/
          - ...
        - edit/
          - assets/
            - ...
          - index.html
          - ...
        - index.html
        - ...
  ```

4. Upload the contents of `map/dist/AssociationMap/` onto the root path of your
   server.

### Changing paths

If you don't want to upload the app(s) to the server root path, but to a
subdirectory on your server, you can achieve that following these steps:

1. In both apps (`app-map`, `app-form`), open and edit the
   `src/environments/environment.prod` file.

2. Change the `serverBasePath` variable to the location on your server you
   uploaded the `api` directory to.

3. Change the `rootPath` variable to the location on your server you uploaded
   the respective app directory to (directory containing the `index.html` and
   the assets directory).

4. Rebuild and redeploy the apps.

### Use the apps

If you uploaded the apps to the root path of the server and did not change the
default paths, the apps' content should appear at the following paths:

1. Open the app at
`http(s)://[YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS]/`.

2. The edit form can be used at
`http(s)://[YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS]/edit`.

3. The edit forms for the dropdown options can be used at
`http(s)://[YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS]/edit/options-form`.



# Data conversion ODS to JSON

By the convention the main color of uMap-test and uMap-prod versions are different.
Also the associations without public address have different color.

## Usage

### Clojure

```bash
cd data
# generate pom.xml (or create it manually)
clojure -Spom

# build
clojure -X:depstar uberjar :jar fdk.jar

# run - two alternatives:

# 1. run unsing clojure
clojure -M -m fdk.geo Vereinsinformationen_öffentlich_Stadtteilkarte.ods out.umap

# 2. run from java
java -jar fdk.jar Vereinsinformationen_öffentlich_Stadtteilkarte.ods out.umap
```

Both alternatives have an optional parameter specifying colors. E.g. for the
test version (using clojure):

```
clojure -M -m fdk.geo Vereinsinformationen_öffentlich_Stadtteilkarte.ods out.umap \
 '{:colors {:main "DarkBlue" :no-addr "DeepSkyBlue"}}'
```
### Typescript

```bash
# install nodejs
sudo npm install -g typescript
npm install --save-dev @types/node
npm install xlsx
```

Compile the typescript source code files as they change:
```bash
tsc *.ts --watch
```

Open a new console and run the data conversion:
```bash
node json.js
```

## License

Copyright © 2020, 2021

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.
